# A Style is Worth One Code: Unlocking Code-to-Style Image Generation with Discrete Style Space

**Authors:** Huijie Liu ⋅ Shuhao Cui ⋅ Haoxiang Cao ⋅ Shuai Ma ⋅ Kai Wu ⋅ Guoliang Kang

**Date/Time:** Jun 5, 10:45 AM - 12:45 PM

**Location:** ExHall A-F

**Type:** POSTER

## Abstract

Innovative visual stylization is a cornerstone of artistic creation, yet generating novel and consistent visual styles remains a significant challenge. Existing generative approaches typically rely on lengthy textual prompts, reference images, or parameter-efficient fine-tuning to guide style-aware image generation, but often struggle with style consistency, limited creativity, and complex style representations. In this paper, we consider the code-to-style image generation task, which aims to produce images with novel and consistent visual styles specified by only a numerical code. To date, this field has only been primarily explored by the industry (e.g., Midjourney), with no open-source research from the academic community. To fill this gap, we propose CoTyle, the first open-source method for this task. Specifically, we first train a discrete style codebook from a collection of images to extract style embeddings. These embeddings serve as conditions for a text-to-image diffusion model (T2I-DM) to generate stylistic images. Subsequently, we train an autoregressive style generator on the discrete style embeddings to model their distribution, allowing the synthesis of novel style embeddings. During inference, a numerical style code is mapped to a unique style embedding by the style generator, and this embedding guides the T2I-DM to generate images in the corresponding style. Extensive experiments validate that CoTyle effectively converts a numerical code into a style controller, demonstrating a style is worth one code. Compared to existing methods, the stylized images generated by our method are more diverse and consistent, unlocking a vast space of reproducible styles from minimal input. View full details
